# Azure API Management (APM)
Azure API Management is basically the API Gateway service from Azure. It offloads the responsibility of microservice developer to build and manage an api-gateway. The APM has 3 components.

- **Gateway**: Is the front-gate to the backend services. The client requests hits the gateway first. It then routes them to the backend services. It verifies api-key, jwt token, enforces usage, quota, rate limit, and logs.  

- **API Management Plane**: provides full access to API management service capability. It's the APM inteface on the azure portal. You can provision API services, define API schemas, package APIs into products, and setup API policies.

- **Developer Portal**: It is automatically generated portal for documentation of your API. It's look and feel can be customized. You can manage API keys from here also.


## OpenAPI
The **OpenAPI* Specification (OAS)** defines a standard, language-agnostic interface to HTTP APIs. It defines how to describe RESTful APIs in a structured, machine-readable format (YAML/JSON).

**Swagger** is a suite of tools to build, document, test, and generate code using OpenAPI. It was originally designed by SmartBear company to define API specification. Because of its popularity, the specification was renamed to "OpenAPI Specification" in 2016. 

**Swagger** can be used in 2 ways:
1. Design First Approach: Use the **_swagger editor_** to define your API contracts. Then use **_swagger code generator_** to generate the boilerplate code.
```bash
openapi-generator generate \
  -i ./openapi.yaml \
  -g nodejs-express-server \
  -o ./server-node

```
2. Code First Approch: You write your API code first (e.g., controllers/routes), and then use annotations or tooling to generate the OpenAPI/Swagger documentation from the source code.

Refer to nestjs on how integrate swagger into the code to generate specification document. https://docs.nestjs.com/openapi/introduction


